---
title: Christmas 2020
author: lopeztel
date: 2020-12-29T19:11:18+00:00
url: /2020/12/29/christmas-2020/
tags:
  - 100DaysToOffload
  - COVID-19
  - Reflections

---
This is meant to be a reflection on spending Christmas alone in one of the worst years for the planet in general.

I think it&#8217;s basically beating on a dead horse to say that 2020 has been horrible in general due to COVID-19, everyone has had it tough for a lot of reasons, from the worst (having lost a loved one or health issues) to the minor annoyances (like working from home).

I don&#8217;t mean to complain, in fact I should count my blessings as I am healthy and in a relatively safe environment so there&#8217;s that too.

I&#8217;ve also spent Christmas away from home a few times before, so it&#8217;s nothing new (spoiler alert, they all sucked), but this time it was different, I guess it&#8217;s related to the fact that I was looking forward to go back home and well, I couldn&#8217;t for obvious reasons (not traveling is the responsible thing to do after all).

Not enjoying the usual family dinner and everything kind of sucked because I really didn&#8217;t do anything special and spent the day alone but there were silver linings:

  * There was Fosstodon matrix channel to hang out (thanks for that [@gina](https://fosstodon.org/@Gina)!), which kind of made my day to be honest. This initiative was successful, it even evolved into a [permanent Matrix room](https://app.element.io/#/room/#afediversechat:matrix.org)
  * Had an early morning videocall with family back home (early morning for me, midnight for them)

All things considered it wasn&#8217;t really bad, even for an introvert like me, human contact is necessary and if I&#8217;ve learned one thing this year is that meaningful human contact is often taken for granted.

On another note, you may be wondering why I make a fuss about spending Christmas with my family as not everyone enjoys that (and I respect that, to each their own), short answer is: I&#8217;m Mexican, if there&#8217;s one thing we value above everything (even common sense or reason at times) is family.

I hope everyone is staying healthy and safe, I am truly happy for those that could get together with their loved ones.

Day 40 of [#100DaysToOffload](https://lopeztel.xyz/blog/tags/100daystooffload/)
